### 1. What is CollScan?

In MongoDB, "CollScan" stands for "Collection Scan." It is a type of query execution plan in which MongoDB scans the entire collection to find documents that match the query. CollScan is generally less efficient because it reads all documents in the collection without using an index.

CollScan occurs when:

There is no index on the field(s) used in the query, so MongoDB has to scan the entire collection.

---

### 2. What is IXScan?

In MongoDB, "IXScan" stands for "Index Scan." This is a query execution process where MongoDB uses an index to quickly locate specific documents that satisfy the query conditions.

IXScan occurs when:

There is an index on the query fields, allowing MongoDB to use the index to find the relevant documents without scanning the entire collection.
Compared to CollScan, IXScan is much more efficient, as it only reads the necessary parts rather than the entire collection.

---

### 3. How to check mongodb execution time ?

**Command:**

```js
db.test
  .find({ _id: ObjectId("6406ad63fc13ae5a40000065") })
  .explain("executionStats");
```

### 3. Index Scan

**The MongoDB command:**

```js
db.getCollection("massiveData").createIndex({ email: 1 });
```

creates an index on the **email** field in the **massiveData** collection, with the following details:

- Collection: `massiveData`

- Field: `email`

- Index Type: Ascending (`1` indicates ascending order)

**Purpose and Benefits of Indexing**

Indexing the `email` field can:

- **Improve Query Performance**: Makes searching by `email` much faster. Instead of scanning every document, MongoDB can directly access the indexed entries.

- **Optimize Filtering and Sorting**: If queries often filter or sort by `email`, this index will enhance performance.

**Considerations**

- **Storage Cost:** Indexes consume additional storage, as MongoDB maintains a separate structure for the indexed field.

- **Update Overhead:** Each update or insert affecting the `email` field will require updating the index, potentially impacting write performance in exchange for faster reads.

**Example Usage**

After creating this index, a query such as:

```js
db.massiveData.find({ email: "example@example.com" });
```

will execute much more efficiently due to the indexed `email` field.
